README.md, before:

# 📊 AtliQ Hardware, Financial Analysis
This project presents an interactive Power BI dashboard developed for AtliQ Hardware, a global manufacturer of computer hardware and peripherals. The goal of this project is to analyze key financial and operational performance metrics from 2019 to 2022, enabling data-driven decision-making across the organization.

---

## 🎯 Business Objectives
Over the years 2019 to 2022, AtliQ Hardware has experienced varying trends in revenue, profitability, and regional performance across its diverse product portfolio. With global operations and a growing customer base, the leadership team recognized the need for a centralized, data-driven approach to monitor and manage financial health.
To support this initiative, the Business Director assigned the analytics team to build an interactive Power BI dashboard focused on core financial KPIs and operational insights.
The objectives of this dashboard are to:
* Generate a clear and dynamic Profit & Loss (P&L) statement covering key financial periods
* Track performance metrics across products, categories, and regions
* Identify profitable segments and areas with declining performance
* Uncover trends in costs, revenues, and margins over time
* Equip finance managers and executives with insights to drive strategic decisions and resource allocation

---

## 🛠️ Tools & Techniques Used
The following tools and techniques were used to transform raw data into an insightful, interactive financial dashboard:
* Power BI Desktop – For end-to-end dashboard development
* Power Query – Used for data cleaning, transformation, and shaping
* Data Modeling – Built a star schema with appropriate relationships between fact and dimension tables
* DAX (Data Analysis Expressions) – Created custom measures and calculated columns for KPIs such as:
    * Net Sales
    * Gross Margin %
    * Net Profit %
    * YoY growth metrics
* Data Visualizations – Designed with end-users in mind using visuals like bar charts, line graphs, KPI cards, and slicers
* Interactive Dashboard Design – Implemented filters by product, category, and region to allow dynamic exploration of insights

---

## 🔍 How to Use

1. Clone or download this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/madhuBayy/Financial_Analysis_PBI.git

Commit message:

Add pbix file link in README.md

README.md, after:

# 📊 AtliQ Hardware, Financial Analysis
This project presents an interactive Power BI dashboard developed for AtliQ Hardware, a global manufacturer of computer hardware and peripherals. The goal of this project is to analyze key financial and operational performance metrics from 2019 to 2022, enabling data-driven decision-making across the organization.

---

## 🎯 Business Objectives
Over the years 2019 to 2022, AtliQ Hardware has experienced varying trends in revenue, profitability, and regional performance across its diverse product portfolio. With global operations and a growing customer base, the leadership team recognized the need for a centralized, data-driven approach to monitor and manage financial health.
To support this initiative, the Business Director assigned the analytics team to build an interactive Power BI dashboard focused on core financial KPIs and operational insights.
The objectives of this dashboard are to:
* Generate a clear and dynamic Profit & Loss (P&L) statement covering key financial periods
* Track performance metrics across products, categories, and regions
* Identify profitable segments and areas with declining performance
* Uncover trends in costs, revenues, and margins over time
* Equip finance managers and executives with insights to drive strategic decisions and resource allocation

---

## 🛠️ Tools & Techniques Used
The following tools and techniques were used to transform raw data into an insightful, interactive financial dashboard:
* Power BI Desktop – For end-to-end dashboard development
* Power Query – Used for data cleaning, transformation, and shaping
* Data Modeling – Built a star schema with appropriate relationships between fact and dimension tables
* DAX (Data Analysis Expressions) – Created custom measures and calculated columns for KPIs such as:
    * Net Sales
    * Gross Margin %
    * Net Profit %
    * YoY growth metrics
* Data Visualizations – Designed with end-users in mind using visuals like bar charts, line graphs, KPI cards, and slicers
* Interactive Dashboard Design – Implemented filters by product, category, and region to allow dynamic exploration of insights

---

## 📁 Project Files
📥 Download Dashboard: You can [download the Power BI .pbix file here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FMX31jAArvJLj32A8TP7F9g7OkvK5hMm/view?usp=sharing) to explore the dashboard and data model.

---

## 🔍 How to Use

1. Clone or download this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/madhuBayy/Financial_Analysis_PBI.git
